---
layout: post
title: TinyOS-1.X installation on Windows XP
excerpt: ""
categories: [installation]
comments: true
---

In these installations, I didn’t install TinyOS in normally. Because the software version is very old. it’s hard to find the installer from the internet and the installer files that we got. it has been damaged (May be from Virus or Malware). To solve the problem, I clone all of the required software, configuration and drivers from the installed machine to another one.

# File structures

```
USB/
├── installer/
│   ├── cygwin
│   ├── graphviz
│   ├── java
│   ├── rpms
│   ├── Notepad-plusplus
│   └── USB Serial Driver
├── clone/
│   ├── cygwin/
│   └── SPB_Data/
├── back up driver/
└── dd/
```

# Cygwin installation

Cygwin is a large collection of GNU and Open Source tools which provide functionality similar to a Linux distribution on Windows. Firstly, you need to wipe out the Cygwin that installed on the target machine and re-install it with our installer.

- Go to “USB/installer/cygwin” paths then Start the installation by run “setup.exe” file with “local install” options. (Should install on C: drive as Default).
- Change directory to “C:” and Delete “cygwin” & “SPB_Data” directory then Copy “cygwin” & “SPB_Data” from “USB/clone” to this directory.

# Java & Java Com.jar installation
I don’t know how to switch Java version of Windows OS. The easiest ways I do is delete all of Java before installs our compatible Java version for TinyOS-1. x, as follows:

- go to “/USB/installer/java” paths.
- Run “J2SE_Development_Kit_5.0_Update_6.msi” with default configuration.
- Run “jdk-7u45-windows-i586.exe” with default configuration.
- Unzip “javacomm20-win32.zip” and Go to “commapi” directory.
- Copy “win32com.dll” to “JDK_HOME/jre/bin” paths.
- Copy “javax.comm.properties” to “JDK_HOME/jre/lib” paths.
- Copy “comm.jar” to “JDK_HOME/jre/lib/ext” paths.

# Driver installation

Normally, after you connect tmote-sky to your machine. The Windows OS should be automatically detecting a new hardware and install a new driver from the internet. But, sometimes the Windows OS cannot detection and install a new driver for you. In this case you need to install the driver by yourself (Actually, it’s should be called driver restoration). as follow:

- go to “/USB/dd” paths
- Run “dd.exe” file to Start “Double Driver” software (it’s portable software).
- Go to “Restore” tabs and choose the backup directory from “/USB/back up driver”.
- Select all of collected driver list and Click “Restore”.

Restart the machine and Enjoy with TinyOS !!


